Create the surveillance advertising page (#179)
readthedocs/ethicalads.io: content/pages/learning-hub/surveillance-advertising.md

title: Surveillance Advertising
slug: surveillance-advertising
description: Online advertising works by collecting data on millions of people without their consent to target ads better. You can opt-out and we can help!

> subtitle: Good advertising doesn't have to stalk you.

Reviewer: stalk seems a bit heavy here and insensitive -- maybe "follow you around the internet" or similar?

Modern online advertising works by accumulating and processing data on millions of people
usually without their consent to help target ads with ever more granularity.

> We call this **surveillance advertising** and believe in a different approach.

Reviewer: I'd probably bold the whole sentence, so people don't think we're in favor of surveillance ads:

```suggestion
**This is called surveillance advertising and believe in a different approach.**
```

To build these profiles,
most advertising networks create a database of user data in order to show the right ad.
This can include data such as:

* sites a user has visited or videos the user has seen in the past
* a user's search history
* ads, pages, or stories a user has clicked on in the past
* demographic information such as age, zip or postal code, gender, or income level
* personal information such as a name or email

Extremely large sites like Facebook have a lot of first-party data on users already
such as the posts they've liked or the groups they are a member of.
This data is very useful to target ads
but all that data at least was given directly to Facebook willfully and voluntarily.
Things get a little murkier when tracking users across the web on third-party sites.

Building a profile from users' visits to third-party sites is typically accomplished by the use of trackers
(sometimes called beacons or pixels).
For example, if a site uses a tracker from an ad network and a user visits that site,
the site operator can now target future advertising to that user – a known past visitor – with that network.

> This is called **retargeting** or **remarketing**.

Reviewer: Seems we're bolding all the stuff we don't like. I think we should probably give these italics, and highlight what _we believe in_.

Author: That sounds good.

but also helps the ad network create their enormous database of all the sites users have visited in the past.
Critically, the site visitor didn't agree to share this data with the ad network but their browser did it anyway.

Other ad predictions are made by grouping similar users together based on some user data and using machine learning.
Frequently this involves an advertiser uploading personal data on users (often past customers of the advertiser)
to an ad network and telling the network to target similar users.
The idea is that two users with similar demographic information and similar interests would like the same products.
In ad tech, this is known as **lookalike audiences** or **similar audiences**.

Understandably, many people have concerns about these targeting techniques.
If you've ever felt that ads "follow you around" while you browse the web, it's because of these.
While the modern advertising industry has built enormous value,
it's done so by centralizing massive amounts of data on as many people as possible.

## We target our ads differently

[Our vision]({filename}/pages/vision.md) for advertising is different.

> We target exclusively based on the content of the page and general geography (usually the country level).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**We target exclusively based on the content of the page and general geography** (usually the country level).
```
